Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions used to produce various kinds of output.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK contains a variety of tools and information. Following is a list of the main components of the JDK:
    javac: This utility is used to compile Java source code into Java bytecode.
    rmic: This utility creates skeletons and stubs for use in Remote Method Invocation (RMI).
    jar: This compression utility aggregates a multitude of files into a single Java ARchive file.
    javadoc: This utility can examine the names of classes and the methods contained within a class.
    wsgen: This generates various artifacts required by Java API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS).
    javap: This utility disassembles class files, generating information about the methods,
           properties and attributes of a given compiled component.

What is IDE?
A. An integrated development environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities
   to computer programmers for software development.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A: Intellij, Eclipse, BlueJ, JEdit, jGRASP, NetBeans, Android Studio.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A: 1. A Java program is written using either a Text Editor like Textpad or an IDE like Eclipse and is saved
    as a .java file. (Program.java).
   2. The .java file is then compiled using Java compiler and a .class file is obtained from it.
    (Program.class).
   3. The .class file is now portable and can be used to run this Java program in any platform.
   4. Class file (Program.class) is interpreted by the JVM installed on a particular platform. JVM is part
   of the JRE software.

what is class?
A:  a class is an extensible program-code-template for creating objects, providing initial values for state
    and implementations of behavior.

What is object?
A: an object can be a variable, a data structure, a function, or a method, and as such, is a value in memory
    referenced by an identifier.

What is the entry point of an application?
A: The main method is the entry point of a Java application.

Why main is static?
A: Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A: java.lang.Object is a super class of any class by default.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A: Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables. Classpath is an
    environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes, PATH is nothing but
    setting up an environment for operating system.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A: Methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations.
    Abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A: The Compiler allows you to create anonymous objects of the interfaces in your code. Another way to do it is
    you extend / implement the Abstract class / interface in a new class, create the object of this new class and then use
    this object as per your need.

what is Access Specifier?
A: Access Specifier is a defining code element that can determine which elements of a program are allowed to access a
    specific variable or other piece of data.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A: OOP is Object Oriented Programming, this is the main ideas behind java.
        Abstraction:  Abstraction means using simple things to represent complexity.
        Encapsulation: This is the practice of keeping fields within a class private, then providing access to
                        them via public methods.
        Inheritance: It lets programmers create new classes that share some of the attributes of existing classes.
        Polymorphism:  This concets lets programmers use the same word to mean different things in different contexts.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A:  It organizes Java classes into namespaces, providing a unique namespace for each type it contains. Java compiler
    automatically imports this package. Second, the java.lang package is imported implicitly.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A:  an application programming interface is a set of subroutine definitions, communication protocols, and tools
    for building software. So far I have used JAVA and pythone.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A: JAVA does not support multiple inheritance becasue it wants to avoid ambiguity error.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A: Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name,
    if their argument lists are different.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A: An exception object is an instance of an exception class. In JAVA you use keyword “throw” to hand the exception to the runtime

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A: The static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly. A static method belongs to the class rather than
    the object of a class. It can use in static data member and can change the value of it.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A:  Final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class. Final variable create constant
variable. Final Methods prevent method overriding.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A: Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
    Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
    Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
A: A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A: Yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A: default constructor/non argument constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A: Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A: It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class.  Only public and
    protected methods can be called by the super keyword. It is also used by class constructors to invoke constructors
    of its parent class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A: Java virtual machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A: No.

What version of java are you using?
A: 11.0.1

What is JAR stand for ?
A: Java archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A: The JVM actually runs Java bytecode. JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code.
    JVM  is an abstract machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A: JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime environment.It is the implementation of
   JVM.

What is compile time and run time?
A: The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. This compilation
   process is referred to as compile time. A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is
   running, it is called runtime.

What is heap?
A: Heap is a specialized tree-based data structure which is essentially an almost complete tree that satisfies the
    heap property.

How java manage it's memory?
A: The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A: StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object . The object created through StringBuffer is
   stored in the heap. StringBuffer has the same methods as the StringBuilder , but each method in StringBuffer is
   synchronized that is StringBuffer is thread safe.

What is Singleton class?
A:  The singleton pattern is a software design pattern that restricts the instantiation of a class to one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A: Serializatoin: In the context of data storage, serialization is the process of translating data structures or object
    state into a format that can be stored or transmitted and reconstructed later.
    Deserialization:  Deserialization is the reverse of that process.

when to use transient variable in java?
A: The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that serialization process of such
    class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any instance of that class.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A:  In do-while , the block of code is executed at least once, even though the condition given is false. To put it in
    a different way : do..While loop, the condition is first tested and then the block of code is executed if the test
    result is true.

What is Enum?
A: Is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.

What is Iterator?
A: an iterator is an object that enables a programmer to traverse a container, particularly lists.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A: Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A: The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A: Java constructor chaining is a method of calling one constructor with the help of another while considering
   the present object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A:  a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
    while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
A: Just In Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A: Java Heap space  is part of memory allocated to JVM by Operating System. When the heap becomes full, garbage is
    collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new
    objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A: No.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A:  Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of
    execution.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A: Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify the properties or behavior of an object at run-time.
    Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the
    classes, methods, etc.

what is multithreading in java?
A: multithreading is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum utilize the CPU time.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A:  Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple
    threads in Java.

What is Framework?
A: ramework is an abstraction in which software providing generic functionality can be selectively changed by
    additional user-written code, thus providing application-specific software.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A: Arquillian, JTest, The Grinder, TestNG, JUnit, JWalk.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A: Major difference in TestNG and JUnit test frameworks is their scope.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A: Finish-to-Start Dependencies, Start-to-Start Dependencies, Finish-to-Finish Dependencies.

what is dependency injection in java?
A:  dependency injection is a technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies the dependencies of another
    object.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A: Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.








