Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. Data structure is a particular way of organizing and storing data in a computer so that it can be accessed and
    modified efficiently.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A: Insertion, Deletion, Searching, Traversal, Sorting, Merging.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A: Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System, Statistical analysis package, Numerical Analysis,
    Graphics, Artifial Intelligence, Simulation.

what is an Array?
A: An Array is dynamically-created object that serves as a container to hold constant number of values of
    the same type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A: Array is a fixed length data structure while ArrayList is a variable length Collection class. You can not store
    primitives in ArrayList, it can only contain Objects. Array can contain both primitives and objects.

what is LinkedList?
A:  LinkedList is a linear collection of data elements, whose order is not given by their physical placement in memory.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A: In array, each element is independent and can be accessed using it's index value.  Linked list can be linera,
    doubly, or curcular linked list.

what is queue?
A: A queue is an ordered collection of items where the addition of new items happens at one end, called the “rear,”
    and the removal of existing items occurs at the other end, commonly called the “front.”

what is stack?
A: a stack is an abstract data type that serves as a collection of elements, with two principal operations: push and pop.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A: FIFO is an acronym for first in, first out, a method for organizing and manipulating a data buffer, where the
    oldest (first) entry, or 'head' of the queue, is processed first. ... FIFO's opposite is LIFO, last-in-first-out,
    where the youngest entry or 'top of the stack' is processed first.

what is the order of complexity?
A:

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A: best case occurs when array is already sorted. We can use linear search to find an element.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A:  The worst case arises when the element is at last position or not in the array.

what is tree in data structure?
A: A tree is a nonlinear data structure.

what is graph in data structure?
A: Graph. A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A: Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A: RDBMS – Array, Network data model – Graph, Hierarchical data model – Trees.

How HashMap works in java?
A: HashMap in Java works on hashing principle. It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve
    it in constant time

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A: ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A:  Arrays.copyOf().

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A: an array is a set of similar data objects stored in sequential memory locations under a common heading or a variable
    name. While a linked list is a data structure which contains a sequence of the elements where each element is
    linked to its next element.

What is DFS and BFS?
A: The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and
    searching a node in a graph.

What is Recursion?
A: Recursion is a method of solving a problem where the solution depends on solutions to smaller instances of the same problem.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A: In the linear data structure, the data is organized in a linear order in which elements are linked one after the other
    and in non linear data structures involves multiple levels.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A: It is use to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A: Bubble sort (n^2), Insertion sort (n^2), Heap sort (n log(n)).

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


